Updated the README.md with overview details (#32)
notaryproject/.github: README.md

# Notary Project Overview

> The Notary Project is a set of specifications and tools intended to provide a cross-industry standard for securing software supply chains. 

Reviewer: 'securing software supply chains' is a very broad statement that implies considerably more capabilities than this project is intending to address. Would recommend modifying this statement to focus more around a standard for securing software supply chains through image signing, verification, and key management (? while the updated text below  provides the history and describes the challenges or limitations with the previous instance of Notary, it does not define the capabilities of each and whether they have changed.)

Reviewer 2: Drawing from a call on the WG-Artifacts, my understanding was that we should keep the organization charter broad enough so that for incremental changes the charter need not be revised. calling out the scope is fair

something along the lines - 
> The Notary Project is a set of specifications and tools intended to provide a cross-industry standard for securing software supply chains through signing and verification" 

The projects do differ in key management scenarios is my understanding.

Author: Updated the text

> The Notary Project is a set of specifications and tools intended to provide a cross-industry standard for securing software supply chains through image signing and verification, signature portability, and key management. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Notary Project is a set of specifications and tools intended to provide a cross-industry standard for securing software supply chains through signing and verification, signature portability, and key management. 
```

Author: Updated the text

> The Notary Project is a set of specifications and tools intended to provide a cross-industry standard for securing software supply chains through image signing and verification, signature portability, and key management. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Notary Project is a set of specifications and tools intended to provide a cross-industry standard for securing software supply chains through artifact signing and verification, signature portability, and key and certificate management. 
```

> The Notary Project is a set of specifications and tools intended to provide a cross-industry standard for securing software supply chains through image signing and verification, signature portability, and key management. 

Reviewer 4: Note: Just to confirm that if the key management is indeed in the scope of Notary Project. Here the key management refers to key creation, key storage, key distribution, key rotation, key revocation.

Reviewer 4: It is covered by TUF-based notary but not notation.

Author: Noted

> The Notary Project is a set of specifications and tools intended to provide a cross-industry standard for securing software supply chains through artifact signing and verification, signature portability, and key and certificate management. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Notary Project is a set of specifications and tools intended to provide a cross-industry standard for securing software supply chains by using authentic Container Images and other OCI artifacts. Notation Project specification and tooling provides signing and verification workflows for OCI artifacts, signature portability across OCI compliant registries, and integration with 3rd party key management solutions through a plugin model.
```

> The Notary Project started with an implementation for signing images in container registries and ensuring their integrity before deployment. The initial implementation uses [The Update Framework (TUF)](https://github.com/theupdateframework) and requires registries to host additional server infrastructure for managing signing keys and image metadata. This server infrstrcture tightly integrates with the container registry and keeps track of the images pushed to the registry. There is also a client component in the form of the `notary` command line interface (CLI) that can be used by developers or CI/CD pipelines to sign and push container images and update the metadata. The CLI wrapps the communication to the registry as well as to the key and metadata management server component. The most prominent use of this implementation is in Docker Content Trust (DCT). The server and the client implementation can be found in the [notary](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary) repository under the Notary Project organization.

Reviewer 6: typo: 

"This server `infrstrcture` tightly" ==> "This server `infrastructure` tightly"

Reviewer: third sentence from the end "The CLI wrapps" ==> "The CLI wraps"

> The Notary Project started with an implementation for signing images in container registries and ensuring their integrity before deployment. The initial implementation uses [The Update Framework (TUF)](https://github.com/theupdateframework) and requires registries to host additional server infrastructure for managing signing keys and image metadata. This server infrastrcture tightly integrates with the container registry and keeps track of the images pushed to the registry. There is also a client component in the form of the `notary` command line interface (CLI) that can be used by developers or CI/CD pipelines to sign and push container images and update the metadata. The CLI wraps the communication to the registry as well as to the key and metadata management server component. The most prominent use of this implementation is in Docker Content Trust (DCT). The server and the client implementation can be found in the [notary](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary) repository under the Notary Project organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Notary Project started with an implementation for signing images in container registries and ensuring their integrity before deployment. The initial implementation uses [The Update Framework (TUF)](https://github.com/theupdateframework) and requires registries to host additional server infrastructure for managing signing keys and image metadata. This server infrastructure tightly integrates with the container registry and keeps track of the images pushed to the registry. It has a client component in the form of the `notary` command line interface (CLI) that can be used by developers or CI/CD pipelines to sign and push container images and update the metadata. The CLI wraps the communication to the registry as well as to the key and metadata management server component. The most prominent use of this implementation is in Docker Content Trust (DCT). The server and the client implementation can be found in the [notary](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary) repository under the Notary Project organization.
```

> The Notary Project started with an implementation for signing images in container registries and ensuring their integrity before deployment. The initial implementation uses [The Update Framework (TUF)](https://github.com/theupdateframework) and requires registries to host additional server infrastructure for managing signing keys and image metadata. This server infrastrcture tightly integrates with the container registry and keeps track of the images pushed to the registry. There is also a client component in the form of the `notary` command line interface (CLI) that can be used by developers or CI/CD pipelines to sign and push container images and update the metadata. The CLI wraps the communication to the registry as well as to the key and metadata management server component. The most prominent use of this implementation is in Docker Content Trust (DCT). The server and the client implementation can be found in the [notary](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary) repository under the Notary Project organization.

Author: I believe this is addressed in the new text. Please review and submit new comment or reopen this one.

> The Notary Project started with an implementation for signing images in container registries and ensuring their integrity before deployment. The initial implementation uses [The Update Framework (TUF)](https://github.com/theupdateframework) and requires registries to host additional server infrastructure for managing signing keys and image metadata. This server infrastrcture tightly integrates with the container registry and keeps track of the images pushed to the registry. There is also a client component in the form of the `notary` command line interface (CLI) that can be used by developers or CI/CD pipelines to sign and push container images and update the metadata. The CLI wraps the communication to the registry as well as to the key and metadata management server component. The most prominent use of this implementation is in Docker Content Trust (DCT). The server and the client implementation can be found in the [notary](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary) repository under the Notary Project organization.

Reviewer 5: s/image metadata/TUF metadata
typo infrastrcture 
```suggestion
The Notary Project started with an implementation for signing images in container registries and ensuring their integrity before deployment. The initial implementation uses [The Update Framework (TUF)](https://github.com/theupdateframework) and requires registries to host additional server infrastructure for managing signing keys and TUF metadata. This server infrastructure tightly integrates with the container registry and keeps track of the images pushed to the registry. There is also a client component in the form of the `notary` command line interface (CLI) that can be used by developers or CI/CD pipelines to sign and push container images and update the metadata. The CLI wraps the communication to the registry as well as to the key and metadata management server component. The most prominent use of this implementation is in Docker Content Trust (DCT). The server and the client implementation can be found in the [notary](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary) repository under the Notary Project organization.
```

Author: Updated the text

> Due to the tight integration between the registry and the key and metadata management server component, portability of signatures between registries is limited. This also limits the portability of the container images. Also, container registry APIs are getting standardized under the [Open Containers Initiative (OCI)](https://github.com/opencontainers) and new capabilities are added. To overcome the portability challenges and enable future flexibility and standardization, the Notary Project community decided to concentrate on specifications for software supply chains and provide reference implementations.

Reviewer 7: nit:  "...concentrate on specifications for **helping enhance** the software supply chains **security** and provide reference implementations."

> Due to the tight integration between the registry and the key and metadata management server component, portability of signatures between registries is limited. This also limits the portability of the container images. Also, container registry APIs are getting standardized under the [Open Containers Initiative (OCI)](https://github.com/opencontainers) and new capabilities are added. To overcome the portability challenges and enable future flexibility and standardization, the Notary Project community decided to concentrate on specifications for software supply chains and provide reference implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to the tight integration between the registry, key, and metadata management server components, the portability of signatures between registries is limited which also limits the portability of the container images. Container registry APIs have begun standardizing on the [Open Containers Initiative (OCI)](https://github.com/opencontainers) and with new capabilities added. To overcome portability challenges and enable future flexibility and standardization, the Notary Project community decided to concentrate on specifications for software supply chains and provide reference implementations.
```

Reviewer: Link to where the decision for this was recorded/captured or provide a footnote detailing this event.

Author: Updated the text. Looking through the notes to find the ones that document the discussion.

Reviewer: that works, thank you!

> Due to the tight integration between the registry and the key and metadata management server component, portability of signatures between registries is limited. This also limits the portability of the container images. Also, container registry APIs are getting standardized under the [Open Containers Initiative (OCI)](https://github.com/opencontainers) and new capabilities are added. To overcome the portability challenges and enable future flexibility and standardization, the Notary Project community decided to concentrate on specifications for software supply chains and provide reference implementations.

Author: Updated text

> Due to the tight integration between the registry and the key and metadata management server component, portability of signatures between registries is limited. This also limits the portability of the container images. Also, container registry APIs are getting standardized under the [Open Containers Initiative (OCI)](https://github.com/opencontainers) and new capabilities are added. To overcome the portability challenges and enable future flexibility and standardization, the Notary Project community decided to concentrate on specifications for software supply chains and provide reference implementations.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Container Images are portable artifacts that can move between registries. Due to the tight integration between the registry and the key and metadata management server component, portability of signatures and therefore images between registries is limited. Also, container registry APIs are getting standardized under the [Open Containers Initiative (OCI)](https://github.com/opencontainers) and new capabilities are added. To overcome the portability challenges and enable future flexibility and standardization, the Notary Project community decided to concentrate on specifications for software supply chains and provide reference implementations.
```

Author: Updated the text

> The first specification from the Notary Project is the [signature specification](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-specification.md) that specifies how portable signatures wrapped in [COSE](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-envelope-cose.md) or [JWS](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-envelope-jws.md) envelopes can be produced. The specification defines the [signing and verification workflow](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signing-and-verification-workflow.md) (aka _Notary signing and verification_), the [signing scheme](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signing-scheme.md), the signature format and how to wrap the signature using COSE or JWS envelopes. A signature, also called a _Notary signature_, produced according to the Notary signature specification can be copied between OCI registries and validated in connected, occasionally connected, and disconnected environments without the need of additional server insfrastructure. The Notary signature secification is available in the [notaryproject](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/tree/main/specs) repository under the Notary Project.

Reviewer 6: Typo:

"The Notary signature `secification` is available in" ==> "The Notary signature `specification` is available in"

> The first specification from the Notary Project is the [signature specification](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-specification.md) that specifies how portable signatures wrapped in [COSE](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-envelope-cose.md) or [JWS](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-envelope-jws.md) envelopes can be produced. The specification defines the [signing and verification workflow](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signing-and-verification-workflow.md) (aka _Notary signing and verification_), the [signing scheme](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signing-scheme.md), the signature format and how to wrap the signature using COSE or JWS envelopes. A signature, also called a _Notary signature_, produced according to the Notary signature specification can be copied between OCI registries and validated in connected, occasionally connected, and disconnected environments without the need of additional server insfrastructure. The Notary signature specification is available in the [notaryproject](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/tree/main/specs) repository under the Notary Project.

Reviewer 7: nit: The latest ( and also the first formal specification because the originally release Notary in 2017 did not have a specification) is the .....

Reviewer 7: We should introduce all the specs we have today in this para and also tell that future specs will be called out in this section too. 

A plugin spec to help vendors and customers develop their own key/certificate store management. A trust store and trust policy spec to describe how users can configure the signatures they consider trusted and apply granular policies for different signature validation checks - Integrity, Provenance, Expiry, and revocation. And additional spec for the signing and verification workflows that client implementations like Notation must follow to ensure signature portability.

Reviewer 6: The Notary **Project** signature specification

Reviewer 5: s/Notary/Notary Project
typo insfrastructure

```suggestion
The first specification from the Notary Project is the [signature specification](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-specification.md) that specifies how portable signatures wrapped in [COSE](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-envelope-cose.md) or [JWS](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-envelope-jws.md) envelopes can be produced. The specification defines the [signing and verification workflow](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signing-and-verification-workflow.md) (aka _Notary Project signing and verification_), the [signing scheme](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signing-scheme.md), the signature format and how to wrap the signature using COSE or JWS envelopes. A signature, also called a _Notary Project signature_, produced according to the Notary Project signature specification can be copied between OCI registries and validated in connected, occasionally connected, and disconnected environments without the need of additional server insfrastructure. The signature specification is available in the [notaryproject](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/tree/main/specs) repository under the Notary Project.
```

> The first specification from the Notary Project is the [signature specification](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-specification.md) that specifies how portable signatures wrapped in [COSE](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-envelope-cose.md) or [JWS](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-envelope-jws.md) envelopes can be produced. The specification defines the [signing and verification workflow](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signing-and-verification-workflow.md) (aka _Notary signing and verification_), the [signing scheme](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signing-scheme.md), the signature format and how to wrap the signature using COSE or JWS envelopes. A signature, also called a _Notary signature_, produced according to the Notary signature specification can be copied between OCI registries and validated in connected, occasionally connected, and disconnected environments without the need of additional server insfrastructure. The Notary signature specification is available in the [notaryproject](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/tree/main/specs) repository under the Notary Project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first formal specification under the Notary Project since the original release of Notary in 2017 is the [signature specification](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-specification.md) that specifies how portable signatures wrapped in [COSE](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-envelope-cose.md) or [JWS](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-envelope-jws.md) envelopes can be produced. The specification defines the [signing and verification workflow](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signing-and-verification-workflow.md) (aka _Notary signing and verification_), the [signing scheme](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signing-scheme.md), the signature format and how to wrap the signature using COSE or JWS envelopes. A signature, also called a _Notary signature_, produced according to the Notary signature specification can be copied between OCI registries and validated in connected, occasionally connected, and disconnected environments without the need of additional server insfrastructure. The Notary signature specification is available in the [notaryproject](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/tree/main/specs) repository under the Notary Project.
```

Reviewer 6: Notary Project signature specification

Author: All references should be updated. Please review and add comments if anything is missed.

The [notaryproject](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/) repository also contains information about the [requirements and scenarios](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/tree/main/requirements) that the Notary Project supports or plans to support as well as the [reports from security testing and audits](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/tree/main/security).

> A reference implementation for the Notary signature in Golang is provided in the [`notation-core-go`](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go) library. A convenience Golang library that interacts with OCI registries and manages the relation between a signed artifact and a signature is provided in the [`notation-go`](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go) library. `notation-go` provides an easy way to implement the Notary signing and verification in Golang. The convenience library is also used by the [`notation` CLI](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) that can be used by developers and CI/CD pipelines to produce portable signatures and store them together with the signed artifacts in OCI-compliant registries. The `notation` CLI implements the Notary signing and verification and can also be used to verify signatures of artifacts stored in OCI-compliant registries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A reference implementation for the Notary signature in Golang is provided in the [`notation-core-go`](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go) library. A convenient Golang library that interacts with OCI registries and manages the relation between a signed artifact and a signature is provided in the [`notation-go`](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go) library. `notation-go` provides an easy way to implement the Notary signing and verification in Golang. The convenience library is also used by the [`notation` CLI](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) that can be used by developers and CI/CD pipelines to produce portable signatures and store them together with the signed artifacts in OCI-compliant registries. The `notation` CLI implements the Notary signing and verification and can also be used to verify signatures of artifacts stored in OCI-compliant registries.
```

> A reference implementation for the Notary signature in Golang is provided in the [`notation-core-go`](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go) library. A convenient Golang library that interacts with OCI registries and manages the relation between a signed artifact and a signature is provided in the [`notation-go`](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go) library. `notation-go` provides an easy way to implement the Notary signing and verification in Golang. The convenient library is also used by the [`notation` CLI](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) that can be used by developers and CI/CD pipelines to produce portable signatures and store them together with the signed artifacts in OCI-compliant registries. The `notation` CLI implements the Notary signing and verification and can also be used to verify signatures of artifacts stored in OCI-compliant registries.

Reviewer 7: We should add that the libraries "notation-go" and "notation-core-go" can be used indepdently of the Notation CLI, and other projects like Ratify and take a direct dependency on those libraries without using Notation CLI.

Author: Added text to clarify thatl

> A reference implementation for the Notary signature in Golang is provided in the [`notation-core-go`](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go) library. A convenient Golang library that interacts with OCI registries and manages the relation between a signed artifact and a signature is provided in the [`notation-go`](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go) library. `notation-go` provides an easy way to implement the Notary signing and verification in Golang. The convenient library is also used by the [`notation` CLI](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) that can be used by developers and CI/CD pipelines to produce portable signatures and store them together with the signed artifacts in OCI-compliant registries. The `notation` CLI implements the Notary signing and verification and can also be used to verify signatures of artifacts stored in OCI-compliant registries.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A reference implementation to produce and verify Notary Project signatures in Golang is provided in the [`notation-core-go`](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go) library. A convenience Golang library that interacts with OCI registries and manages the relation between a signed artifact and signatures is provided in the [`notation-go`](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go) library. `notation-go` provides an easy way to implement the signing and verification in Golang. The `notation-go` library is also used by the [`notation` CLI](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) that can be used by developers and CI/CD pipelines to produce portable signatures and store them together with the signed artifacts in OCI-compliant registries. The `notation` CLI implements Notary Project specifications for signing and verification, and can also be used to verify signatures of artifacts stored in OCI-compliant registries.
```

You can learn more about the Notary Project on the [notaryproject.dev](https://notaryproject.dev) website. 

## Repositories

Here is a list of repositories under the Notary Project organization

| Repository | Description |
| ----- | -----|

> | [.github](https://github.com/notaryproject/.github) | This repository contains the Notary Project governance and other common documents that are shared across repositories. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [.github](https://github.com/notaryproject/.github) | This repository contains the Notary Project governance and other common documents that are shared across repositories under the Notary Project Organization. |
```

Author: Updated the text.

> | [.github](https://github.com/notaryproject/.github) | This repository contains the Notary Project governance and other common documents that are shared across repositories. |

Author: Updated the text.

| [meeting-notes](https://github.com/notaryproject/meeting-notes) | This repository contains the archived meeting notes. |

> | [notary](https://github.com/notaryproject/notatry) | This repository contains the source code for the server and the client of the TUF-based implementation. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [notary](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary) | This repository contains the source code for the server and the client of the TUF-based implementation. |
```

Reviewer: This line is perhaps the most clear differentiator between the Notary Project and Notary in that Notary is a TUF-based implementation, and the Notary Project is not TUF-based. If this is correct, I would recommend ensuring this clarity is conveyed much earlier and throughout the two repositories.

Author: Yes, we will convey this across the documentation and READMEs

> | [notary](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary) | This repository contains the source code for the server and the client of the TUF-based implementation. |

Reviewer 7: This repository contains the source code for the server and the client of the initial (2016/2017) TUF-based implementation.

> | [notary](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary) | This repository contains the source code for the server and the client of the TUF-based implementation. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [notary](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary) | This repository contains the source code for the server and the client of the TUF-based implementation circa 2016. |
```

> | [notaryproject](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject) | This repository contains the Notary Project requirements, scenarios,  specifications, and security audits. |

Reviewer 7: This repository contains the **latest (current as of 2023)** Notary Project requirements, scenarios,  specifications, and security audits.

Author: Added just the "latest"

> | [notaryproject](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject) | This repository contains the Notary Project requirements, scenarios,  specifications, and security audits. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [notaryproject](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject) | This repository contains the Notary Project requirements, scenarios,  specifications, and security audits to overcome the challenges from the initial implementation of 2016. |
```

| [notaryproject.dev](https://github.com/notaryproject/notatryproject.dev) | This repository contains the source code and content for the [Notary Project website](https://notaryproject.dev). | 

> | [notation](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) | This repository contains the source code for the convenience CLI implementation of the Notary signing and verification flow. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [notation](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) | This repository contains the source code for the convenient CLI implementation of the Notary signing and verification flow. |
```

> | [notation](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) | This repository contains the source code for the convenient CLI implementation of the Notary signing and verification flow. |

Reviewer 7: nit: the Notary **project** signing and verification flow.

Reviewer 6: @iamsamirzon should it be Notary **Project** signing and verification flow?

Author: Updated

> | [notation](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) | This repository contains the source code for the convenient CLI implementation of the Notary signing and verification flow. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [notation](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) | This repository contains the source code for the convenient CLI implementation of the new Notary Project signing and verification flow. |
```

> | [notation-go](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go) | This repository contains the source code for the convenient Golang library implementation of the Notary signing and verification flow. |

Reviewer 7: nit: the Notary project signing and verification flow.

Author: Updated the text

> | [notation-go](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go) | This repository contains the source code for the convenient Golang library implementation of the Notary signing and verification flow. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [notation-go](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go) | This repository contains the source code for the convenient Golang library implementation of the new Notary Project signing and verification flow. |
```

> | [notation-core-go](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go) | This repository contains the source code for the Golang library implementation of the Notary signature specification and wrapping (COSE and JWS). |

Reviewer 7: nit: the Notary project signature specfication

Author: Updated the text

> | [notation-core-go](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go) | This repository contains the source code for the Golang library implementation of the Notary signature specification and wrapping (COSE and JWS). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [notation-core-go](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go) | This repository contains the source code for the Golang library implementation of the Notary Project signature specification (hereafter "Notary signature spec") and wrapping (COSE and JWS). |
```

Author: Updated the text as agreed by the community

> | [roadmap](https://github.com/notaryproject/roadmap) | This repository is intended for keeping track of development activitis in the Notary project. It may be retired in the future. |

Reviewer 6: typo

`activities` ==> `activities`

> | [roadmap](https://github.com/notaryproject/roadmap) | This repository is intended for keeping track of development activities in the Notary Project. It may be retired in the future. |

Reviewer 7: It may be retired in the future **as feature request and milestones are moved to individual repositories**

Author: Updated the text

> | [roadmap](https://github.com/notaryproject/roadmap) | This repository is intended for keeping track of development activities in the Notary Project. It may be retired in the future. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [roadmap](https://github.com/notaryproject/roadmap) | This repository is intended for keeping track of development activities in the Notary Project. It may be retired in the future as feature request and milestones are moved to the appropriate repositories. |
```

| [tuf](https://github.com/notaryproject/tuf) | This repository is intended for prototyping the storage of TUF metadata in OCI-compliant registries. It is not under active development at the moment but there are plans to revive it in the future. |

## Project Status

> The Notary Project is in active development. The latest release announcement are published on the [Notary Project blog](https://notaryproject.dev/blog/). The Notary community uses the [project board](https://github.com/orgs/notaryproject/projects/10) for project planning and status tracking. You can also use GitHub milestones to track the progress of each repository:

Reviewer 6: typo:

"The latest release announcement `are` published" ==> "The latest release announcement `is` published"

> The Notary Project is in active development. The latest release announcements are published on the [Notary Project blog](https://notaryproject.dev/blog/). The Notary community uses the [project board](https://github.com/orgs/notaryproject/projects/10) for project planning and status tracking. You can also use GitHub milestones to track the progress of each repository:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The Notary Project is in active development. The latest release announcements are published on the [Notary Project blog](https://notaryproject.dev/blog/). The Notary Project community uses the [project board](https://github.com/orgs/notaryproject/projects/10) for project planning and status tracking. You can also use GitHub milestones to track the progress of each repository:
```

- [The Notary Project specification milestones](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/milestones)
- [notation CLI milestones](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/milestones)
- [notation-go library milestones](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go/milestones)
- [notation-core-go library milestones](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go/milestones)
- [notary milestones](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary/milestones)

> You can also check the release pages of each repository for the laste release binaries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also check the release pages of each repository for the latest release binaries:
```

- [The Notary Project specification releases](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/releases)
- [notation CLI releases](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/releases)
- [notation-go library releases](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go/releases)
- [notation-core-go library releases](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go/releases)
- [notary releases](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary/releases)

## Security

The Notary Project has had several public security audits:

- [July 31, 2015 by NCC](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary/blob/master/docs/resources/ncc_docker_notary_audit_2015_07_31.pdf) covering `notary` repository.
- [August 7, 2018 by Cure53](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary/blob/master/docs/resources/cure53_tuf_notary_audit_2018_08_07.pdf)) covering TUF and the `notary` repository.
- [Mar 21, 2023 by ADA Logics](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/security/reports/fuzzing/ADA-fuzzing-audit-22-23.pdf) fuzz testing audit covering `notary`, `notation-go`, and `notation-core-go` repositories.

> The Notary Project has a continuous fuzz testing implemented for the following repositories: `notary`, `notation-go`, and `notation-core-go`.

Reviewer 3: Should we also add the first fuzz testing report or blog to this sentence to provide context reference? https://www.cncf.io/blog/2023/03/21/the-notary-project-completes-fuzzing-security-audit/

Author: We link to the PDFs of the reports. I believe this is sufficient for the README.

> 

Reviewer 6: Add
- [Jul 7, 2023 by ADA Logics](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/security/reports/audit/ADA-notation-security-audit-23.pdf) security audit covering `notation`, `notation-go`, and `notation-core-go` repositories.

Author: Added the link

# Notary Project Overview

The Notary Project is a set of specifications and tools intended to provide a cross-industry standard for securing software supply chains by using authentic container images and other OCI artifacts. Notation Project specification and tooling provides signing and verification workflows for OCI artifacts, signature portability across OCI compliant registries, and integration with 3rd party key management solutions through a plugin model.

> The Notary Project started with an implementation for signing images in container registries and ensuring their integrity before deployment. The initial implementation uses [The Update Framework (TUF)](https://github.com/theupdateframework) and requires registries to host additional server infrastructure for managing signing keys and TUF metadata. This server infrastructure tightly integrates with the container registry and keeps track of the images pushed to the registry. There is also a client component in the form of the `notary` command line interface (CLI) that can be used by developers or CI/CD pipelines to sign and push container images and update the metadata. The CLI wraps the communication to the registry as well as to the key and metadata management server component. The most prominent use of this implementation is in Docker Content Trust (DCT). The server and the client implementation can be found in the [notary](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary) repository under the Notary Project organization.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The Notary Project started in 2016 with an implementation for signing images in container registries and ensuring their integrity before deployment. The initial implementation. notary, uses [The Update Framework (TUF)](https://github.com/theupdateframework) and requires registries to host additional server infrastructure for managing signing keys and TUF metadata. Users found this implementation challenging to use (Refer details at bottom of the page), and it led to the community coming up with new specifications in year 2022 with a reference implementation, Notation.  
```

I suggest we move the details of notary and the container image definition to the bottom of the page, so that we can direct readers attention to what is under active development.

Author: The current text provides good context for the reader and why the initial implementation is challenging. This and the next paragraph are crucial to understand why the pivot was needed. I would suggest keeping as is and as suggested by @gokarnm

> Container images are portable artifacts that can move between registries. Due to the tight integration between the registry, key, and metadata management server component, portability of signatures and therefore images between registries is limited. Container registry APIs have begun standardizing on the [Open Containers Initiative (OCI)](https://github.com/opencontainers) and with new capabilities are added. To overcome the portability challenges and enable future flexibility and standardization, the Notary Project community decided to concentrate on specifications for helping enhance the software supply chains and provide reference implementations.

Reviewer 7: I suggest we move this definition to the bottom of the page, so we can let readers jump into The notary project  details quickly

Author: This is an important requirement that justifies the need for the specification. I would suggest that we keep it here as @gokarnm suggested.

> The first specification from the Notary Project is the [signature specification](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-specification.md) that specifies how portable signatures wrapped in [COSE](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-envelope-cose.md) or [JWS](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-envelope-jws.md) envelopes can be produced. The specification defines the [signing and verification workflow](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signing-and-verification-workflow.md) (aka _Notary Project signing and verification_), the [signing scheme](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signing-scheme.md), the signature format and how to wrap the signature using COSE or JWS envelopes. A signature, also called a _Notary Project signature_, produced according to the Notary Project signature specification can be copied between OCI registries and validated in connected, occasionally connected, and disconnected environments without the need of additional server insfrastructure. The signature specification is available in the [notaryproject](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/tree/main/specs) repository under the Notary Project.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The first formal specification from the Notary Project, not based on TUF, is the [signature specification](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-specification.md) that specifies how portable signatures wrapped in [COSE](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-envelope-cose.md) or [JWS](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signature-envelope-jws.md) envelopes can be produced. The specification defines the [signing and verification workflow](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signing-and-verification-workflow.md) (aka _Notary Project signing and verification_), the [signing scheme](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/blob/main/specs/signing-scheme.md), the signature format and how to wrap the signature using COSE or JWS envelopes. A signature, also called a _Notary Project signature_, produced according to the Notary Project signature specification can be copied between OCI registries and validated in connected, occasionally connected, and disconnected environments without the need of additional server infrastructure. The signature specification is available in the [notaryproject](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/tree/main/specs) repository under the Notary Project.
```

You can learn more about the Notary Project on the [notaryproject.dev](https://notaryproject.dev) website. 

## Repositories

Here is a list of repositories under the Notary Project organization

| Repository | Description |
| ----- | -----|
| [.github](https://github.com/notaryproject/.github) | This repository contains the Notary Project governance and other common documents that are shared across all repositories under the Notary Project organization. |
| [meeting-notes](https://github.com/notaryproject/meeting-notes) | This repository contains the archived meeting notes. |
| [notary](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary) | This repository contains the source code for the server and the client of the TUF-based implementation circa 2016. |
| [notaryproject](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject) | This repository contains the latest Notary Project requirements, scenarios,  specifications, and security audits to overcome the challenges from the initial implementation of 2016. |
| [notaryproject.dev](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject.dev) | This repository contains the source code and content for the [Notary Project website](https://notaryproject.dev). | 

> | [notation](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) | This repository contains the source code for the convenient CLI implementation of the new Notary Project signing and verification flow. |

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
| [notation](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) | This repository contains the source code for the convenient CLI implementation of the new Notary Project specifications. |
```

- [The Notary Project specification milestones](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/milestones)
- [notation CLI milestones](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/milestones)
- [notation-go library milestones](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go/milestones)
- [notation-core-go library milestones](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go/milestones)
- [notary milestones](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary/milestones)

You can also check the release pages of each repository for the latest release binaries:

- [The Notary Project specification releases](https://github.com/notaryproject/notaryproject/releases)
- [notation CLI releases](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/releases)
- [notation-go library releases](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go/releases)
- [notation-core-go library releases](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go/releases)
- [notary releases](https://github.com/notaryproject/notary/releases)

## Security

> The Notary Project has had several public security audits:

Reviewer 7: suggest we flip in reverse chronological order with the latest security audit shown first

Author: Updated the section and reversed the order.
